All right now let's start adding some real detail to our character.
So we're going to start off with his facial features which will be in the head folder starting on the
head layer.
So we're going to add a new layer above our clipping mask.
This way it won't create a clipping mask within the head.
That's not what we want because we're going to create clipping masks within this layer.
First we want to add a new layer above our clipping mask so add a new layer.
Next we want to do is we want to use the circular murky tool to create an oval this oval is almost going
to be a circle about like that.
Next we're going to do is we're going to fill that in with our field tool and the color white and mastic.
Now this is going to be the base for I.
Now let's rotate it.
So using the Transform Tool which is control t on a Windows and command on a Mac are going to rotate
our eye just a little bit about there will be do.
Now this new layer is going to be turned into a clipping mask.
So once again we'll come up to layer and come down to create coping mass.
Now using a brush tool going to use a hard edged brush.
And about the size it is now will do.
And we're going to create our iris.
So I want to use a color very similar to this brown up here.
So bring that up and I think I actually wanted to be a little bit more towards the yellow side so I'll
bring that up also.
OK.
Switch back to the brush.
And I'm going to enlarge the iris just by a little bit.
And then I'm going to go ahead and put one dot in desirous.
Now you'll have to play around with the placement of his iris.
But luckily sensitizes own layer you can grab it and move it and change the direction of where his eyes
looking.
So it's pretty cool.
So play around with that and decide where you want your character looking.
I think about there is good for me.
Next what I want to do is I want to paint in his pupil.
So what we'll do is using the same exact color we had we're just going to darken it.
So we're going to bring it down very close to the blacks about their will do.
Oh OK.
Next we're going to switch over to our brush.
Make sure that your make sure that your brush size is a little bit smaller than the previous circle
we created.
So make that a tiny bit smaller and then we're going to fill that in.
So Bret next we're going to do is we're going to really select this light brown and then using our brush
tool again and bringing down the size we're going to add a highlight into his like so now I might play
around with the position of this so we might undo that and try it in a different spot.
Try it down here.
I like it probably somewhere in the middle about there.
Awesome.
Now the next thing we want to do is we want to merge these two layers together so they're one.
So this layer and that layer.
So we're going to select both of them.
Now what we can do is we can copy that selecting with the marquee tool and we copy it.
Right.
So now we have two eyes of the second.
We're going to use the Transform Tool to put it in position and reshape it.
So because of perspective this I will look different than that I think I'm going to rotate it just a
bit.
Also
I think I'm also going to shrink it down vertically so turn the Transform Tool back on bring it down
just a tiny bit.
This is on the other side of his head and a little bit further away from the viewer.
Therefore it's going to appear a little bit smaller.
Now you can also play with the placement of things by using the arrow keys on your keyboard.
So I'm just going to nudge this over just a little bit and see how that looks.
So these two eyes are a little bit too close together for me.
So what I can do is I can come over to my other eye and move him over with the arrows on my keyboard.
I think that looks a little bit better.
Now we want to add some eyelashes to our character now rather than drawing them on.
That can be a little bit tricky especially if you're using a mouse.
What we can do is we can select both or I are going to merge them together.
So now they're on one layer.
Next we're going to select their shape.
Now the way you do this is by holding down control on a Windows or command on a Mac once you're holding
that down.
We're going to click this little thumbnail on the layer what that will do is it'll make a selection
of everything on that layer you'll see here in a second.
Now you can see that it's selected his eye shapes you want to do.
Now we want to create a new layer underneath those eyes and then we're going to fill those in with a
dark gray almost black somewhere about there.
We'll hit OK then we're going to fill that in.
You can't see it because the layer is behind those eyes.
But what we're going to do now is using the arrows on our keyboard.
We're going to nudge that layer up and it's going to create some eyelashes on the top of his eyes.
So switch to the grab a move tool and then push those up once maybe twice.
Right.
Great character is really coming along now.
The next thing we want to do is we want to add eyebrows to a character so using the same gray color
and my brush tool I'm just going to paint in some eyebrows and see how they look.
Now this might take some experimenting until you get the eyebrows look in the way you want.
And that's OK.
It's all part of the process.
What we want to do is we want to add in a mouth.
So I'm going to select this skin Tim and I'm going to darken it a little bit so I'll bring it down to
about there.
And then we might bring it more over to the saturated side.
Then I want to bring it down more towards the red side of the color spectrum.
OK.
Now we can paint in some lips are usually what I'll do if I want to create a shape with a paintbrush
is rather than trying to paint that shape or paint something pretty close to it.
Then using my a race tool I can erase that away until I get the shape that I want.
Right.
I think I like that shape but I don't necessarily like the position.
So what I can do is if I want to try other positions I can use my lasso tool to trace that out.
And now using the grab move tool I can move that around and try different positions for his mouth.
I think right about there's good.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want to add a cast shadow from his goggles.
This will just make the character a little bit more interesting and realistic look.
The way will do that.
We're going to create a new clipping mask on our headshake so I add a new layer above that.
But we want this to be above our skin layer.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to select a dark blue color.
We're going to come up to the blue spectrum and then we're going to come down to a dark bluish gray
ash about somewhere in there.
OK then we're going to paint in that cast shadow.
Now I know this looks really funny but it is a second.
We're going to bring down the opacity and it'll look a lot more like Chateau
great.
So now coming over to the opacity on our layer we're going to bring that down.
Tonight you can see it's looking a lot more like a shadow.
Now the reason why we did a bluish gray ash color for the shadow is because shadows tend to be a cool
color when you're creating shadows.
Use cool colors when you're creating highlights.
Use warm colors.
That's just a good rule of thumb to go by.
Next we want to create a new clipping that so what we'll do is we'll come down to the first Clokey mask
and we'll add a new layer.
And remember if you add a layer underneath a clipping mask it'll automatically turn it into a clipping
that.
But now we want to Dragon It's called The Mask above our shadow clipping mask.
All right.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to add in a darker shadow along this edge usually in corners
of walls and crevices in cracks.
Shadows get darker and so we're going to add that darker shadow along this edge.
So selecting the same color that we have here we're going to darken that and we're also going to bring
the saturation a little bit higher.
So about there should do maybe a little bit darker.
Well OK.
Next using our brush tool and making sure we have a soft edged brush.
Don't paint in that little edge just like so
now if it looks too dark you can always bring down the opacity on this layer.
Now really quick.
We'll go ahead and list the label all of our layers within our head folder.
So starting with the skin layer we're going to label that skin then we'll label our next layer which
is the shadow layer and we'll call it Chateau the next layer is also the second part of the shadow.
So we'll also call that shadow.
Next is his eyebrows and mouth.
So we'll call that features.
And lastly are his eyes.
So we'll call that layer eyes.
Now we can close this folder down and move on to the next part of our character.
Now if you're creating a character along with me or you're creating your own character I'd love to see
what you're working on.
So go ahead and save out your character and post the progress that you're making in the Q&A section
of this course or on the Facebook group page or both.
Very interested in seeing how you as my student are doing.
And I want to help you as best I can remember that if you have any questions please ask them in the
Q&A section and I will answer all of your questions.
Guaranteed.
I'd also like to say thank you for taking this course and I appreciate you as a student.